Josh Antone - Senior Design Self Assessment (Worked Alone)

Obviously, by working alone, my individual contribution to the project was the entire thing. I was able to build on and apply the skills I had mentioned in my self-assessment from the Fall. These included things like programming knowledge gained through various classes I have taken at UC like CS1021C (Computer Science I) and CS2021 (Python Programming). This also includes knowledge about the software development process from courses like EECE3093C (Software Engineering). I also applied a lot of what I learned as a Software Engineering Co-op at KLH Engineers by doing application programming and user interface design and implementation. Overall, I was able to make good use of things I have learned during my time at UC and was also able to build upon those skills by working on this senior design project.

For my project, I created an Android application based around cooking recipes and keeping track of what ingredients users have on-hand. This required many of the skills mentioned in the paragraph above, but also many new things that I have yet to experience much of. These included mobile development, database design, using cloud resources, and more. I got up to speed with Android development by going through a lot of free tutorials and courses on the subject, and did similar things to learn about using cloud resources. I worked with Google Firebase to host the application, store my data, and authenticate users. Overall, I would call the project a success. I was able to create a functional Android application that does what it set out to do. I personally believe I had great successes designing my NoSQL database on Firebase, developing a unit library to make working with various units of measure simple, and making the application as usuable as possible given the time and resources available. The hardest challenges would generally come from my lack of familiarity with some of the fields I worked with, especially because a lot of these technologies are very new and bleeding edge. This would make finding reference material difficult and I would often realize that the reference material I did find was already out-of-date despite being only months old. Adding a barcode scanning feature to my app also proved to be very troublesome, as I quickly learned how unstandardized UPC codes are, but I believe I was able to make a good effort in implementing that feature to the best of my ability.